# Zachary Alverson SNHU CS 499 ePortfolio

Throughout my studies here at SNHU and developing this ePortfolio I have grown a tremendous amount in my ability to showcase my strengths and understanding of software design and engineering, data structures and algorithms, and databases. This all started with developing small projects in IT 145 using the language Java. I gained a better understanding of data structures and algorithms in the course CS 260. Upon taking one of my favorite courses I learned about data structures and their purpose in DAD 220. I have also gained an important understanding and practice in collaborating in a team environment in CS 250, a course that focused on the SCRUM methodolgy. This also enhanced my knowledge of communicating to stakeholders by understanding how important it is to understand the requirments that must be met before starting devolopment. Specifically in this ePortfolio, I was able to showcase my proficiency in regards to programming in OOP, Java, NoSQL, MongoDB and Node.js.

The IT 145 course opened my eyes to OOP (object oriented programming). This enables you to create objects that can hold data and methods. This course was also an introduction to IDEs (integrated devolopment enviroments). This is an enviroment such as Microsoft Visual Code and Eclipse. This is where you can write and run your code using packages for different languages. This course introduced me to the basic sytax of Java and how an application should be designed.

In the CS-250 Software Development Lifecycle course I was able to gain a solid understanding of the importance of collaborating in a team environment and communicating to stakeholders. During that course, I was able to assume the role of, as well as work with others assuming the roles of different members of an agile development team. These roles included the scrum master, product owner, tester, and developer. The time spent in that course and the lessons learned really showed me the importance of the different roles of a development team and how crucial it is to work together, including the communication to stakeholders of the project, in order to meet deadlines and requirements of the project and customer. As a whole, all of the courses that I was enrolled in here at SNHU that were directly related to Computer Science pushed the importance and gave me a growing understanding of software design and engineering.

DAD 220 was a fasincating course and introduced me to the world of databases. This couse focused on SQL (Structered Query Language). SQL is used to gain access and modify data that is stored in databases. When I think about data being stored. I think of everything that is held on Amazon's application. All this data has to be accessedd, retrived, and manuipulated. This is one example of why understanding databases is so important.

[Software Designing and Engineering](
